[ Silence ]
[ Music ]
>> Lisa Garr: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of Gaiam Inspirations.
Millions of people
struggle everyday
with sharing what they feel
or what they want in a way
that they can really be heard.
And we simply haven't
been taught the effective
communication skills or
the emotional vocabulary
or even the self-awareness
needed to get unstuck
in those challenging
moments or to prevent them
from happening in
the first place.
My guest today, Bill Stierle,
is a communications
specialist and a mediator.
And he's developed a link
between emotional intelligence
and thinking styles technology.
And our show today is about
how to implement these tools
to increase communication
peacefully and to navigate
through conflict both at
home and in the workplace.
Thank you for being here.
>> Bill Stierle: Lisa, it
is my pleasure to be here.
I feel grateful to be back
again connecting with you and--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle:-- sharing
this information.
>> Lisa: You know, what
you do is such a valuable,
valuable thing because we
are not taught these skills
where we learn them from
whatever we observe our parents
or relatives doing
when we're young.
And so, how did you get started
in teaching communication,
how did you dissect that?
>> Stierle: Well, it's been
an interesting journey for me.
A big part of it was, you know,
you ask a big question and all
of a sudden you got
a big answer.
So, the first question
I started asking
when I was teaching high school
science is why do people think
the way they do?
I really pursued this kind of
thinking, you know, mindset it's
like 'cause I noticed that
some of my students were--
really have a certain
gift at stuff.
When it came to testing, they
didn't really do very well.
So I kept asking
that question like,
why are they thinking
the way they do.
It seems like they know a
certain kind of information
and it was translating,
but it didn't show up.
So it led me to that kind
of first step is why do
people think the way they do
and that different parts of the
brain communicate and listen
to vocabulary and even
use different definitions
for the same word.
So misunderstanding can
take place very easily.
>> Lisa: So where do we get
those frames of reference
for different words and
what they mean to us
versus what they
mean to someone else?
>> Stierle: Boy, there's
all kinds of expectation
that a kid should know what
the word respect means,
where they should know what
the word fairness means,
they should know what
the word kindness means.
They really actually don't.
>> Lisa: They don't, yeah.
>> Stierle: You know, they
don't and they're trying
to make a word association
with the definition.
But clearly they'll have
a different definition
and then they're-- it's a little
bit like, you know, soup there,
you know, like putting
different vegetables in
and different definitions
with stuff.
And, you know, like,
how do they think that?
And the answer is, is
that they're just
associating certain experiences
or imprinting from their
parents or from the teachers
or from their friends, and
they're just putting it
in to their language soup.
>> Lisa: So when you're a
kid and someone says share
with your sister and
you get the little piece
and they get the big piece
and that's their definition
of share now, that's
what that means.
>> Stierle: Boy, that's true.
It doesn't seem like
something I want
to do very much now, does it?
>> Lisa: How things get formed.
>> Stierle: Yes, they are.
>> Lisa: So then,
how did you transfer
into actually teaching this
level of communication?
Where did you discover these
different ways of thinking?
>> Stierle: Well, the big
part of it was is that,
is that I kept noticing
that thinking kept showing
up in a different way and I
was watching the brain science
that was going on.
And I ran into a very
powerful mentor that taught me
about these are different
ways sort of thinking in it,
it was a model that was actually
developed in General Electric--
at General Electric and was used
in regarding some team analysis
and communication and
meeting effectiveness
and to understand how to do
job descriptions, you know,
to put people in alignment
with what their strengths are.
>> Lisa: Each other.
So--
>> Stierle: What a surprise.
>> Lisa: -- it seems like a kind
of personality profiling,
but it's not, right?
>> Stierle: That's right.
It's a little different than
a lot of the models out.
So it's a brain-based model.
It's a physiologically-based
model that really talks
about how thinking and
a very strong metaphor
about that there's different
quadrants of the brain
that think differently and
they light up and they energize
in regards to these
different value sets.
>> Lisa: So it is physiological,
it's really different
quadrants of the brain.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
And those different--
you can't really kind
of separate the brain out--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle:-- that much.
But the metaphor allows us to
talk about it a lot easier.
That here are different things
that are activated
during different times
of thinking that takes place.
>> Lisa: And this
is called the--
>> Stierle: Yeah, it's called
the Hermann Brain Dominance
Instrument is the tool that's
used to measure these things.
>> Lisa: OK.
So, all right.
So take us through a little
bit about what this is
and a framework around
the brain dominance model.
>> Stierle: Well, the first step
is to understand that there's
in the upper left part of brain,
there is this very strong
logical analytical part.
And then very-- and in the
lower left part of the brain,
there is more of an organizing,
detailing of different style
of thinking, which is
very, very different.
And then, there's in the
lower right part of the brain,
there is am interpersonal
style of thinking
or a connecting style of
thinking and communicating.
And then, the upper right part
of the brain, there's more
of a synthesizing and a
holistic style of thinking
or big picture communication,
more speaking in an overview.
>> Lisa: OK.
And so these are kind of the
four quadrants that we're going
to go into and learn all about
and there's foundational
elements around all of this.
Yes?
>> Stierle: Yes, and so
these foundational elements,
one of the things that
happen in communication is
that thinking is very much--
there are four different kinds
of communication that
goes that takes place.
There's a thinking
style of communication,
there's a behavior
and then there's a belief
style of communication.
That a person is going to
advocate and communicate
for their belief, or someone is
going to advocate or communicate
for their need, or someone is
for their thinking style.
So, we're going to take a look
at these three things today
and take a snapshot of them and
then have a little bit of fun--
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stierle: -- you know, taking
a look at what they look like
and how it looks in
real time, you know.
>> Lisa: And then--
>> Stierle: How do you figure
this out in real time with--
>> Lisa: It's so great--
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: -- because it
helps me understand where I
and how I think and
then, communicate,
and then who I'm
communicating to.
So, we're going to take
a quick look at a video
of Bill teaching this
model, take a look.
>> Stierle: [Background Music]
There isn't one conflict
that I can't turn the corner
between 17 and 23 minutes.
One board asked me
to make an analysis
of their executive chain and
the comment from the board was,
"You have taught me more about
my people in the last two hours
than I've had sitting
in all the board meeting
up to this moment."
The best way to change
a belief is replace it.
I've seen companies like
worth would go from 20 million
to 230 million in two
or three-year period.
As soon as you said the word
"millions", you are done.
When we were doing the
walkaround activity,
this is the CEO position
in the center of the brain,
what we were doing is we
were trying to isolate
and identify different
communications styles.
Pick two colors that
are most like you.
>> Donnie Nips: My name is
Donnie Nips [assumed spelling]
and I am a green first
and a red second.
>> Stierle: The green card
thinks in a very structured way.
>> I am a yellow and a red.
>> Stierle: The yellow card
is the entrepreneurial card,
the marketing card,
the branding card.
>> I am definitely yellow, quite
bit of red, a little bit of blue
and not much green at all.
>> Stierle: The blue
group, that would be
like the engineer group
that's thinking logical,
rational, analytical.
The red group is
adversarial to that group
because they're thinking
interpersonal and feeling base.
All right, you ready blue team?
You ready red team?
Pick a bullet and read
the bullet under expect.
See what happens to you
and see how you're affected
by it emotionally.
I do see a lot of hard
moments especially
when they start catching
the main reasons why their
communications have
failed in the past.
>> This training with
Bill has been phenomenal.
It allowed me to kind
of reidentify my
personal strengths.
>> I've never had a class
that was so engaging, so fun,
and then I could use what
I've learned right away.
>> We've had a number of
very component sales trainers
over the years, Bill
knocked it out of the park.
He's by far the best.
>> Stierle: One of the things
I'm really confident about is
that I know that I
can get your results.
How did you connect
to his message?
When I think about TD
Waterhouse, when I think
about Occidental
Petroleum, when I think
about Notre Dame University,
I know that I can come in
and help your organizations to
have effective communication
in order to increase
productivity and effectiveness.
Say nothing I did was wrong.
>> Nothing I did was wrong.
>> Stierle: It was his green.
Nice.
>> Lisa: Tell me
a little bit more
about the whole brain
system, about how this works.
>> Stierle: So in communication,
the main part about it is,
is that from a blue,
from the upper left part
of the brain really
focuses on brief clear
and precise informations,
really interested
in that bottom line
fact that goes on.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Whereas opposite of
that, in the lower right part
of the brain, there
is a strong tendency
for I really want interpersonal
connection, I want to know
that my needs and the needs
of others are considered.
And those are very, very
different because one is looking
for sentences no--
not over seven words,
please and the other
one is looking
for two paragraphs including
the story about my uncle
that happens to know, you know,
of my cousin that has a cat.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: There's all these
connections stuff that's
in there.
So those are two
very, very different.
It's like you put an
engineer and a social worker
in the same room together
and they're talking--
>> Lisa: Talking totally
different languages.
>> Stierle: -- different
languages.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And the other parts
of the brain are
talking very differently.
So the upper right part of
the brain is going to speak
like an overview or a
conceptual framework are taught
from this big picture
synthesizing style,
whereas the communications
coming from the lower left part
of the brain is the step by step
unfolding the topic, one, two,
three, four, five, you know,
written schedule action plan,
I want to do my sequence
and I'm going to do
that throughout the day.
>> Lisa: And that's the only
way I can look at the world is
through that sequence.
>> Stierle: Yeah, because it
provides a sense of certainty
and trust throughout my day.
The other style is going
to be more like an artist,
a big picture thinker.
And then, the green
style is going to be more
like a drill sergeant or
somebody that thinks mostly
like that is going to
be more structured.
>> Lisa: Very organized.
>> Stierle: That's right.
>> Lisa: Now, can you have
more than one thinking style?
I saw that in the video,
it had a couple, a lead.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
You'll have one primary
that would lead
and the way the population
and the database,
there's about the
2.3 million people
that have taken the
survey worldwide.
And about 58 percent
is double dominant,
that means they combine
two and they don't do
as much of the other two.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And then about 34
percent is triple dominant,
and has a balance of three but
one of them is distinctly lower.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And then,
single dominant is
when they're just
mostly like one,
like my engineer would
be mostly like my blue.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: My social worker is
going to be my-- like my red.
My artist is going to be my--
like my yellow and my drill
sergeant is going to be like a--
so, that five percent--
>> Lisa: Oh, so it's
significantly lower.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
Now, there is a group that
has a balance of all four,
about three percent
of the population is
a balance of all four.
>> Lisa: Interesting,
very interesting.
So, the way that you'll
be able to identify this
with yourself is if
you're more of a feeler,
you're more of the red, we have
these quadrants that you have--
>> Stierle: That's right.
>> Lisa: -- the quadrants
is what ourselves looks
like in this particular slide.
So, the feelings self,
the experimental self,
the rational self and the--
what is the green one?
>> Stierle: The green one
is going to be organized--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- and
detailed sequence.
>> Lisa: Sequence.
>> Stierle: Those are--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- the things
that are going to be there.
>> Lisa: OK, great.
So, these are the filters
when which we see the world.
It's how we communicate, it's
how we parent, it's how we work
in relationships, it's
how we work in our jobs.
How else does this--
>> Stierle: That's correct.
>> Lisa: -- affect--
>> Stierle: We're going to
be attracted to jobs that are
in alignment with
what our strength is.
So, if I take an engineer
and I mix it with an artist,
I'll get a research scientist.
If I take my blue and my
yellow, I'll get a stock broker.
>> Lisa: Oh.
>> Stierle: If it's someday
that can analyze something,
blue and then, see the big
picture and take a risk
in yellow, I then can
put them together,
I'll get a stock broker.
Now-- and if I take an
engineer and I mix it
with a drill sergeant,
I get an accountant.
>> Lisa: OK.
That's within--
>> Stierle: -- or a
technical manager,
so I'm mixing them together.
>> Lisa: OK.
What if you were an employee
and you're the red
quadrant touchy-feely,
and you're boss is the
intellectual rulekeeper?
Do those-- How do those
learn to communicate?
>> Stierle: That's where
it gets interesting.
And that's a big part of my
consulting practice is going in
and teaching teams how
to communicate better
and it's not-- the
rule is, is that
and the think I live the new
belief is it's not personal,
it's preference,
very simple sentence.
But it really makes
a big difference.
It's not personal.
It's somebody being direct.
>> Lisa: Oh, that's interesting.
>> Stierle: It's
their preference.
>> Lisa: It's their preference.
>> Stierle: It's
their preference.
It's not personal that
somebody is telling a story.
It's their preference.
>> Lisa: So, according to
this slide, you really--
if you look at that person
on their view of the world,
so my boss has a very
intellectual perspective
on life.
It's not a personal
attack on me,
that's the way he
views the world--
>> Stierle: Yes.
>> Lisa: -- that's
what you're teaching.
>> Stierle: That's right.
He or she is going to have that
world view or that snapshot
and they're going to see
it not as a full picture.
They're going to
see it as a skew.
I'm going to skew
towards one part
of these thinking
values or another part.
It's not-- the main thing
is to get people used to,
to standing in their strength,
not thinking they need
to become a balanced person.
Being come balanced has a whole
another set of problems to it
because then you're
not good at anything.
>> Lisa: Oh yeah, that's true.
>> Stierle: You're more in the
center, you know, you're not--
>> Lisa: Undefined.
>> Stierle: You're undefined
'cause you got to move
and just -- and by the way,
that person has a whole
different advantage
than the person that's
sitting in one strength,
which we'll get a
little bit into
>> Lisa: Interesting,
interesting.
OK. So now, knowing
that people look
at the world in different ways--
>> Stierle: Yes.
>> Lisa: -- you have
this great slide here
that I was actually
able to read.
What is your intention
with this slide?
>> Stierle: Oh my gosh.
This is a hilarious slide.
So, would you like
to try to read it?
>> Lisa: Oh, I did.
I read it--
>> Stierle: OK, read it
out loud, see what happens.
>> Lisa: Can you read this?
Only 55 people out of 110 can.
I couldn't believe that I could
actually understand what I
was reading.
The phenomenal power of a human
mind according to the research
at Cambridge University, it
doesn't master in what order,
the letters are worded in--
oh God, I've lost my place.
Will keep going?
>> Stierle: Yeah please.
>> Lisa: Oh really?
>> Stierle: Yes.
You may.
>> Lisa: I doesn't matter
what order the letters--
the letters in a word are.
The only important
thing is that the first
and the last letter
be in the right place.
The rest can be a total mess
and you can still read
it without a problem.
This is because the human mind
does not read every letter
by itself, but the
word as a whole.
Amazing, huh?
Yeah, and I always thought
spelling was important.
If you can read this, that
you have a strange mind too,
that's fine.
>> Stierle: Isn't that fun?
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: Now the reason why
I stuck this slide in here is
because I-- I'll put this in
the training and I'll have--
you know, after just, you
know, working with the group,
I'll find a green
or a blue thinker,
somebody that's more
detailed or more analytical.
And they'll start stalling
about in the middle,
or they'll even get fried even
about the third paragraph
'cause their sense of detail,
they want to correct it and
they want to structure it.
So, what happens is, is that
my right brain people will tend
to read it in a very easy
flow and not really get hung
up on the details of it
and they're doing exactly
what the study says.
So they're in the 55 percent.
As your brain got tried
and that's why I
pushed you through it--
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: -- your-- the green
part of your brain is going
to like, wait, wait,
you know, like hold on.
You know, gosh, go like--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: -- want to
stay in this overview.
I don't want to do the green
detail and your brain--
>> Lisa: Right.
I don't want to do this.
>> Stierle: You know, I
don't want to do the detail.
That's like kind of pushed you
through it is 'cause what our
brain does is that it gets stuck
because whatever our superpower
is, whatever our strength is,
it wants to run the day.
I wants to-- I want to step into
what I'm good at and I want to--
I don't want to do in
what I'm not good at.
>> Lisa: Right, right?
>> Stierle: Right.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
It makes a lot of
sense, right, you know--
>> Lisa: Survival
mechanism, absolutely.
>> Stierle: -- going to--
I'm going to take this
and so having the slide there
was a really an illustration
and the main part of it is just
watching how people's brain
and where they start
getting stalled
and where their brain
starts getting tired.
>> Lisa: That's interesting.
>> Stierle: And they get
tired at different times.
Their brain gets tired
like I don't want
to really do this green thing.
I don't want to,
you know, do this.
It's very, very interesting.
>> Lisa: I love it.
No, it's great.
>> Stierle: Isn't it fun?
Yes.
>> Lisa: So give us an idea of
people who we could identify
with and we might know in the
public eye or famous people
that are in these
different quadrants.
>> Stierle: Well, the main
thing is that if you take a look
at a very creative
person that is sitting
in the yellow quadrant
like Picasso, or da Vinci,
and Einstein, they're very--
Amelia Earhart, they're all
out of the box thinkers.
They're all trained to stay out
of the view and they're playing
in the place of risk and vision.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Whereas if we
look at people that are
in the interpersonal world that
are interested in connecting
with people and doing things
for the greater good of all,
then we've got Gandhi,
Martin Luther King,
Princess Diana, Mother Teresa--
>> Lisa: Can you ever
be-- can you be both?
>> Stierle: That's correct.
You can start combining
things and that's when we get
into that percentage thing is
that OK, I've got this part
of myself that's very creative
and I got this other part
of myself that's
very interpersonal.
So that might be that somebody
that's in costumer service
or that is an actor or a teacher
that does that interpersonal
and creative and has a lot
of that flexibility going.
>> Lisa: OK, all right.
I understand.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: What about
somebody like Obama?
Have you looked at his--
>> Stierle: So if we take a
look at some of the things
that he's led to, here
are some indicators.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: OK, one, the
biggest thing is, is that, oh,
he really worked as a
community organizer.
That's a very interpersonal
red quality.
I'm going to be a
connector for the community.
But wait a minute, another part
of myself is this attorney,
which is more towards the blue
analytical thinking part of it.
Well, another part
of me really wants
to cause change to take place.
Well, that's a big
part of yellow.
I've got to actually try
to do something very,
you know, big in change.
But wait a minute, I want
to do that in government.
Well, government is guess what?
Green, it's more structure.
So--
>> Lisa: So he's got a little
of the red party and a little
of the blue party and-- I mean,
he's got a little
of the green party--
>> Stierle: And the idea is
how can you create change,
that's the yellow quadrant,
into a system that's
more of a green system?
>> Lisa: It's an interesting
question as a leader
because you want to
appeal to the people
and there are certain
dominant brain types, right?
So you want to speak to the
green party, you want to speak
to the red party, you want
to speak to the blue party,
but you're not always
going to be able
to speak to them all at once.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
While you've got to
use your narrative
to put different messages
in four different places.
>> Lisa: Is that what
you do when you--
>> Stierle: When I'm
doing a training, yeah.
>> Lisa: -- do a
training, is that you speak
to all four different
segments of the brain
in different parts
of your training?
>> Stierle: OK, so
let's do that right now.
You ready?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: OK, great.
Hi, my name is Bill Stierle.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: And today,
we're going to learn some
facts and information.
It's going to be
really important.
It could create a really--
for some of you here that
are listening or going
to really understand all
the facts and information.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And then also, we're
going to learn today a step
by step way to communicate
in a more effective way.
And for some of you,
you're going
to really enjoy the connection
between Lisa and for some
of you, it's going to be one of
the most outstanding TV shows
that you've ever watched.
>> Lisa: Oh so what a--
>> Stierle: I got all four.
>> Lisa: -- all four of them.
>> Stierle: I did the blue, and
the green, and then the red,
connection between you and I.
And then some that's
going to be the one
of the most outstanding TV
shows you've ever watched.
>> Lisa: I liked how
you said that as well.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So here's a
really clear, you know,
sign here that shows exactly
what Bill just went through,
the intellectual.
Now, why do you say the
entrepreneurial would be
in the yellow quadrant?
>> Stierle: Yeah.
That's very important is
that's where risk takes place.
That's where the creative
idea comes in and then I have
to bring that product or
service out to the marketplace.
I've got to build a
team around that then.
So, if I'm going to
take a risk or I'm going
to bring a new product
or service,
I need to bring that in.
So guess what, if we take a
look at technology, Bill Gates,
Steve Jobs, and Michael Dell
of Dell Computers
are all yellow first.
They're all yellow first.
They're all take it-- OK,
I want to do something
in the technology field and
I'm going to do different
and then their second colors,
all their second
colors are different.
>> Lisa: So this would be
very interesting to know
when you're selling something
is of course how to sell it to--
>> Stierle: Right.
>> Lisa: -- different
groups of people and how
to communicate what
you're selling
to different groups of people.
You said that-- I mentioned
earlier that you're a mediator.
>> Stierle: That's right.
>> Lisa: So do you
use this in situations
where there is relationship
conflict, business conflict?
>> Stierle: Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely,
mediation, it's very important
to know what the
person's thinking style is
because it allows us to be--
it gives us a snapshot
to understand what their
primary needs are and what--
the way they would like to hear
a language narrative to be put
in a way so they can hear it.
Yeah.
>> Lisa: That's important.
So earlier, I mentioned about
needs being met in a way
that they're able to be
heard, to really be heard.
So if I'm speaking in an
intellectual way to someone
who is a feeler, they're
not going to hear me, right?
>> Stierle: Yeah, they're not.
How about this?
How about-- this
is really funny.
If you take the word "plan",
just the word "plan"--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- and you
ask people to define plan,
just plan, there are four
different definitions you
can use.
>> Lisa: I am sure, yeah.
>> Stierle: OK, so blue is
going to be financial plan.
>> Lisa: Oh, OK.
>> Stierle: OK?
>> Lisa: I'm not a blue,
all right I get that.
>> Stierle: Right, great.
Yellow is going to
be a strategic plan,
three to five years out.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Green is going
to be a tactical plan.
What are we going to do in
the next day, week, month?
>> Lisa: To get there, OK.
>> Stierle: And then the red
is going to be a people plan.
Who is going to do this?
Who do we need to onboard
in order to do this?
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: So it's
very interesting.
It looks like a simple
word, right?
>> Lisa: But are you starting
to understand who you are?
I mean, you're being
able to identify?
This is so great too.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So do the different
quadrants ask questions
in a different way?
>> Stierle: They do.
>> Lisa: The slide depicts--
>> Stierle: Yeah.
So you can actually-- this
is-- I really like this slide
and this piece of information
'cause it's called the quickest
way to understand
who you're talking
to because they'll actually
build their narrative based
on why questions,
or what questions--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- or who
questions, or how questions.
So if somebody says how are we--
as soon as they start there,
the next response is,
well first, we need to.
Second, we need to.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Third, we-- 'cause
they asked the how question.
>> Lisa: Great, OK.
>> Stierle: Who is going
to be at the party.
Well hear the names
up, see that's going
to be the natural flow.
>> Lisa: OK, OK.
>> Stierle: Why,
well, the why is
because then you're
painting a big picture.
>> Lisa: OK, that
makes-- and what about--
>> Stierle: -- these facts.
>> Lisa: -- is now the what and
the what if, what if people do,
do you know what if, what
if, what if, what if,
this happens, what if.
>> Stierle: What is
a blue, if is yellow.
>> Lisa: So how do you
appeal into the what ifs.
>> Stierle: Well, what if--
>> Lisa: This happens.
>> Stierle: -- I'm
taking this data
and I'm bringing it
and revisioning it.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: I want to have a
revision of this data, what if.
>> Lisa: That's a
what if question.
>> Stierle: That's
a what if question.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stierle: Now.
>> Lisa: OK.
So now we understand the
different ways to communicate
to someone you could
identify their personality,
their brain dominance
type instantly by the way
that they ask questions.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
>> Lisa: OK, great.
Now, let's talk about
this a little bit.
This--
>> Stierle: I love this slide.
>> Lisa: Great.
OK, what does the slide mean?
>> Stierle: This
is a great slide.
This is when our
brain shuts off.
Our brain is going to pull a
stop light or go to red light
when we're at the one
that's the worst for us.
If we're not good at
one of these things,
our brain will start
shutting down.
For all the folks that are on
the red and the yellow side
of side of the fence,
chances of them waiting
for their taxes on,
you know, the 15th--
>> Lisa: The day
they're due, yeah.
>> Stierle: That
they're due is very--
is high because they're putting
it off 'cause their brain is
already in a stop light
mode towards that value set
which is more the
blue-green side of the fence.
Those folks have finished it
already some time, you know, in,
you know, January,
February, you know, done.
>> Lisa: How do you
balance that out
if you are the thinker
feeler, I mean, the feeler,
the emotional feeler, how
do you comply with rules
and organizations
and directions.
>> Stierle: Well, the challenge
is, is that first off to move
into the mindset that there
is not a good or bad way--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- of thinking.
There's not a right or
a wrong way of thinking
to back off judgment
based on thinking.
It's like there's
not a better thinker
because a person
doesn't know math
and they're a brilliant
artist is
because they are
brilliant artist.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: Because
that's what they are.
>> Lisa: That's what they are.
>> Stierle: That's what
they're meant to do.
Some people can network
the heck out of a room.
>> Lisa: Yeah, yeah.
>> Stierle: And they could have
100 of their closest friends.
Where some people have four
throughout their whole life--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: -- and that's it.
Interesting.
>> Stierle: There's
no right or wrong,
it's just two different
ways to do that.
>> Lisa: Quite often we look at
other people and we expect them
to be the same as we are.
And so what you're teaching
here and what you've taught for
years is to just respect
where they are
and not take it personal
as you said.
>> Stierle: That's
right, it's a preference.
>> Lisa: Preference.
>> Stierle: And get used to--
and what I try to get people
to do is get used
to a super power,
if you don't want Iron
Man to do Hulk's job.
Iron Man is a--
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: -- yellow,
blue character.
Hulk is a--
>> Lisa: Emotional.
>> Stierle: -- red and green
character, with anger issues.
OK, so.
>> Lisa: Anger management,
that's not on this model.
>> Stierle: You know I can--
I could do all the superheroes
if you like, it's a very
funny stuff, you know, Batman,
you know, what's
his thinking style.
Sure, each one of them have
the different thinking style.
So, why, because those
different characters saying
with the X-men, I mean, they're
are all these different--
there-- why, because
I like this character.
I dress up as this
character because I'm
like the Spider-Man character,
I'm like the Superman character.
>> Lisa: They're
archetypes, essentially.
>> Stierle: They're
essentially archetypes
or our modern archetypes.
Now, here's what's very, very
interesting about this detail is
that we know Superman
has kryptonite.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: Well guess what,
all of us have kryptonite.
>> Lisa: We all have
our shadow side.
>> Stierle: We all
have our side.
So the idea then is, is that if
we have a shadow that's going
on, is that either
we delegate it.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: You know?
>> Lisa: So the CFO
shouldn't be doing HR.
>> Stierle: That's correct,
that's another strong play
because they're actually good.
So in-- if we take a
look at this next slide,
the CFO is going to be
more in the blue place.
The COO, the operations
person is going
to be more green is going
to implement things.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: The VP
of HR is going
to handle the interpersonal
issues,
the VP of marketing is going to
handle the expense and trying
to get the message out to people
and try various different
messages and then measure them,
hear the different messages.
>> Lisa: Now, what if you're
a one-man show and you have
to communicate to the employee.
I mean, you're all of it.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
So a lot of people
start out and they--
they're going to put on
those several different hats.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And that's good
when you're getting started
because you're trying
to get the thing moving.
>> Lisa: But--
>> Stierle: Right.
>> Lisa: That's another
part of that.
>> Stierle: But the but part
is, is that they're going to run
into their kryptonite.
They're going to run into the
thing that they don't do well
and they need to
trust and delegate it.
>> Lisa: So there's
a solution there
which will be delegating
your weakness.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
And here's the fun part
of that in some of us--
many of us, like 83 percent
of first marriages
are opposite dominance.
We marry the person
that's opposite us.
>> Lisa: Why?
>> Stierle: Because
they're our kryptonite.
We figure they can handle
it,
we'll just push it across to
them,
and they're mysterious for six
months, for the first six months
which is completely magical.
It's like, "Wow,
look at this person.
They could do all that stuff."
>> Lisa: I can't do--
>> Stierle: -- there's
this little space in there
that we can connect a little
bit, but I don't know.
There's this magical
thing that's turned up.
It's very, very opposite of us
and you know, it's attractive.
It's, you know--
>> Lisa: So are you saying
to marry your similar
brain type?
>> Stierle: No.
The attraction pieces that
were attracted to the opposite.
The problem is, is that
people don't know that.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And they don't
know that a part of the rule is
to appreciate the differences.
>> Lisa: Ah, there's the
key-- relationship key.
>> Stierle: Right.
How can I appreciate that
you're doing something I hate.
And--
>> Lisa: But I don't
understand--
>> Stierle: -- and
I don't understand.
>> Lisa: -- possibly managed.
>> Stierle: And it's
better not for me to not
to judge the way
you're doing it.
>> Lisa: Good idea.
>> Stierle: And think
that I know a better way.
I just let you do that
over there and like--
and then we'll meet
in the middle somewhere.
>> Lisa: Great idea.
>> Stierle: And you'll
handle that space over here
and I'm handling this space.
>> Lisa: Well, that's a great,
great piece of relationship
advice.
That's our show folks.
That's over.
Because that's all we need to
hear.
The key to life by Bill Stierle.
>> Stierle: It seemed
I'm kidding.
And it's celebrating, how can I
celebrate what the other person
is bringing to the table?
How can I celebrate that they're
bringing something different?
You know, I'm very clear I
always say in my lifetime,
I will never be an accountant.
And you know what, I am
actually OK with that.
I'm really OK with that.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: I get to
be an organizational
development consultant.
I get to be a mediator.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stierle: I get to be a
communication specialist,
that's what I get to do
and that's my contribution
and my piece.
>> Lisa: And I could see how
that would be extremely
effective.
Yes.
>> Stierle: It's a good
thing to stay in my--
inside my super power
and not really in--
what do I do with my kryptonite?
I ask people to help
me with that
and I delegate those things.
I say could you please work on
my scheduling here, Jennifer?
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stierle: You know, Frankie,
can you handle the
bookkeeping over here.
My financial manager
does his thing.
Steve does his thing.
And each one of those different
people are taking different
pieces of the things that I
am not really very good at.
>> Lisa: So in a leadership
context in this next slide,
how do we know what these
people's kryptonite is
and how they manage
their kryptonite?
>> Stierle: Some of them
actually have done a pretty good
job of managing their
kryptonite.
You know, if I even think of
something like Richard Branson
that sits up in yellow that
manages and then and thinks
about many-- multiple
different companies
that he's running
simultaneously,
how do you do that?
From a yellow place, you have
key individuals that you trust
and you'll have to extend
that pesky trust thing.
And then you navigate your
brand and brand imagery.
And then you say one day,
yeah, you know, I'm stuck here,
you know, in an island here
and I want to start an airline
because it's clear that these
islands are underserviced
and I think I could start
an airline out of nothing.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: I mean-- I--
you know, how do you start
an airline out of nothing?
Well, that's the way you start.
You start an airline,
now you call your people
and say listen, this is--
>> Lisa: I'm going
to start an airline.
>> Stierle: -- start
an airline, yeah,
start an airline, ended up at--
>> Lisa: Well, that
is actually a lot
of these people have become
very popular leaders--
>> Stierle: That's correct.
>> Lisa: -- because they do know
how to find people they trust
to handle their weaknesses.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
And each one of them have
had situational consequences
because of their thinking style.
Oprah has had her challenges
with her thinking style.
Mary Kay, Martha Stewart
most certainly extended trust
to somebody that was
having yellow and got her
into a bunch of trouble there.
And each one of those folks have
had situational consequences
where they're not seeing what's
going on in the other side.
Of course, they've also
stayed in their super power
and have had to make
changes, you know,
'cause they didn't see what
was actually taking place
and they weren't really
didn't even see the risk
that was taking place.
>> Lisa: That's what a
situational consequence is, OK.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
That's what a situational
consequence is.
You know, and that's
where the power to--
it's how do I appreciate
the way my thinking works
and then contribute
that to the world?
I'm going to contribute
what my strength is.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And then I'll move
into a place of acceptance.
>> Lisa: And that's the key.
It's not judgment,
but acceptance.
>> Stierle: I'm on acceptance
that I'm probably not going
to know at all and that's
not the objective anyways.
It's not to know at all.
The objective is, is that
how can I stay on the path
of my own progress and skill
and mastery inside
my thinking skills.
>> Lisa: 'Cause that's going to
be what you're better at anyway.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
That's correct.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Yeah, so the
idea is, is that to break
down the walls between these
four different thinking styles
and to see that it's
a collaborative
and cooperative process.
>> Lisa: OK.
So break down the walls.
>> Stierle: That's right.
That's right.
We want to see that, Lisa,
we want to really
just engage process
that there's somebody
else that knows something
that I don't know from a
different point of view.
And I'm going to allow
a broader view of truth
to take place, not
a limited truth.
>> Lisa: It seems like something
that would be the
antidote to selfishness.
This is very anti-selfish
process.
>> Stierle: That's right.
We're trying to move
into a collaborative
cooperative strategy rather
than a competitive or you know,
that adversarial style
strategy you did.
The strategy of not enough,
the strategy of and/or and move
out of black and white thinking.
>> Lisa: What if you have
somebody in your workspace
that isn't that competitive
dog eat dog mindset?
Do you bring this concept
in and get eaten alive
or how would you-- what
brain dominant model would
that person be in?
>> Stierle: Well, that's where
it gets interesting 'cause a lot
of the things when I come
in I do a team analysis.
I know where everybody
sits all the time.
I know where they're
sitting and I teach them
where they're sitting.
Just like listen,
they're having--
they're holding this
part of the business.
Now, you can challenge them
or their supervisor can
challenge them on their skill
and mastery and you
could challenge them
on their professional
development.
You know, rather than
thinking that you're going
to like turn them over.
You're going to try
something new.
>> Lisa: So don't change
their personality just look
at where they're sitting.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Stierle: And even take
things, I've actually--
and company realignments.
I'll take things off of people's
performance evaluation says this
does not belong on this
performance evaluation.
It doesn't belong there.
It belongs on this other
person's 'cause you're setting
that person up to what
they're not good at.
>> Lisa: So if you put
organizational skills
in an artist's performance
analysis,
you're not going to get a good--
>> Stierle: No, you know--
>> Lisa: -- performance.
>> Stierle: That's right.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
A there's some ways to
do it and so we're trying
to really engage
the flow of things.
And that's why I like this
picture and this image
so much is that I want to flow
these different energies to show
up and I want to be mindful
of all of them and to be able
to nurture each one of those
four different value sets
and then to infuse us into
an organization or a marriage
or in my communication
with my kids.
>> Lisa: Yes.
That's a very important part.
So this is a huge piece
and a lot of what you teach
and what I've-- was introduced
to about was parenting,
is how do you use this-- now can
your child be a different brain
dominance than you are?
>> Stierle: Yes.
>> Lisa: How?
>> Stierle: It's so wacky.
So for example, my
son, Aiden, he's 12
and he is yellow
first, blue second.
He's got like killer math
skills, I mean he really does.
It's like a little wacky.
So my blue color
card is my last.
It's clearly my kryptonite.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Stierle: So what happens
is, is that I sit down with him
and said, "Listen, here's
a shorter way to do it,
it goes like that,"
you know and you can--
[ Laughter ]
And I go like, "What do you
mean I get up here," I go,
"It's like, well, you know, OK.
You just teach me
how you do it."
He goes, "Well, this is
the way I work on it,
I would never do that."
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Stierle: 'Cause
my yellow thinking--
I'm looking for shortcut
all the way.
He's going to like, "I'm
not doing shortcut."
Here's the analytical
and here's the--
>> Lisa: Now--
>> Stierle: Now, here's
when it gets really cool.
So I go over-- I review these
cards with my kids and we'd go
over them, you know, when
certain situations come out.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And so, like after
Aiden was a weekend at school,
I go, "OK, and let's
assess your teachers."
He goes, "Well, here-- my
teacher, this teacher does this,
and this teacher does this."
I go, "Well, what do you think?"
And he goes, "Well, I think
this teacher does this."
I go, "Well, when are you
going to break it to her."
"Well, I think I'll
go in tomorrow."
I go, "Do you want
the color cards?"
"Yeah, I'll take
the color cards."
He takes the color cards.
All of a sudden, here's where
we're going to struggle
between teachers and students
and he's teaching the teacher
how they're going to
struggle because you know,
you do this kind of yellow thing
and then you've got
this green thing you do
and then you got
this blue thing.
We're going to connect
here and here,
but we're not going
to connect over here.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Stierle: And she's now like,
what are you talking about.
>> Lisa: But what does that tell
you?
Do you have to be
able to be a student
to get a good grade based on
your teachers or learning--
our daughter is a
very creative writer
and her writing teacher
is very analytical
so she's getting these
bad grades on something--
>> Stierle: That's creative
writing.
>> Lisa: So she should go
up to the teacher and say,
"Your style of thinking
is different
than my style of thinking.
That's why you're giving me bad
grades."
>> Stierle: And I'm just
looking for the bridge
between the two of us.
Now schools-- school
regrettably tilt left,
multiple choice test
favor blue thinkers.
Now this is-- there's
a situation consequence
for both thinkers.
Number one, the red and yellow
folks think there's something
wrong with them, that
was the way I grew up.
There's something wrong
with me, I'm on the red
and yellow side of the fence.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: Something
wrong with me
because clearly my friends
did really good test scores
and they know what the teacher
does and they know what I do
and the teacher-- I had no
idea that-- no, no-- they--
everything was skewed
in their directions.
>> Lisa: Wouldn't it be great
if they could have the SAT
in the different color
cards and you can say,
here's your artistic thinker SAT
and here's your analytical
thinker SAT
and they could have
advanced calculus.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
'Cause that's the
way it needs to go.
That's the way it needs to go
and there's several countries
that are moving into dropping a
lot of the standardized testing
and going a collaborative
testing where we're going
to test you on projects.
And you're going to be a team of
six and everybody's got to go--
get over the bar of these six
people in the pot.
And here's your project
and every week,
you got to execute this project.
Now there's going to be a
little bit of math, and a little
of history, a little bit of
English but everybody's got
to get over the bar on this.
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Stierle: And then why?
Because guess what that--
what it turns out is
you have an 18-year-old
that can work well with others.
You can have somebody that can--
has dealt with conflict
along the way.
Not all to be suddenly thrown
out here and because the--
here's a situational
consequence.
The blue and the
green thinkers think
that because they have
gotten the As and the Bs
out of the group, they felt that
they're-- that they know things.
Meanwhile, I got a whole
group of those folks that are,
you know, they're working for
me and they don't know that,
you know, like-- well, 'cause I
figured out what they're doing
and I'm just putting
things in front of them.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: And they think,
oh, yeah, that's 'cause I know.
>> Lisa: It's-- I mean, that's
experiential learning and then--
>> Stierle: It is.
>> Lisa: -- I think it's
the best way of learning.
>> Stierle: It's got to be
90 percent of retention is
and experiential and
project work, yeah.
>> Lisa: Definitely.
>> Stierle: It's going to
be done in project works.
>> Lisa: What was Einstein?
>> Stierle: Einstein
code is great.
Yeah. The code--
>> Lisa: He was a blue, right?
>> Stierle: Yellow first.
>> Lisa: Yellow first.
>> Lisa: That makes
sense, visionary.
>> Stierle: Why?
Visionary first.
Why? Because if somebody
goes to sleep
and imagines himself riding
across a lightning bolt
through the universe and
then wakes up the next day
and brings whatever works
about mathematically,
that's yellow first and
then, you know, blue second.
>> Lisa: Well, this quote
from him really just--
it just described
the whole idea here.
Everybody is a genius but if
you judge a fish by its ability
to climb a tree, it will
live its whole life believing
that it is stupid.
That's what you were just
talking about in terms
of the education level.
>> Stierle: That's
right, that's right.
And that's a big damage to--
on both sides because
if somebody's good
at multiple choice test,
they have a false sense
that they know things.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: So that the
person that knows facts
and information, the
instructional system--
the instructional system is
very simple, very simple.
It's very-- It's going to be
broken down into one sentence.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Get the right answer
in the shortest amount of time.
>> Lisa: Right, right.
>> Stierle: That's the system.
>> Lisa: Yes.
>> Stierle: Now,
here's the difference
between instruction
and education.
Two Latin words, instruktori
which means two pack in.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Edukari
which means two lead out.
You don't have an
education system.
It's an instructional system.
>> Lisa: We do because
you ask a child
to repeat what they learned
the grade before and-- yeah.
>> Stierle: Now, we
got to do a better job
of accessing mentorship, at
putting people in alignment
with the person in that skill
set, but that seems super power.
>> Lisa: Yeah.
>> Stierle: And we want to train
the person in their super power.
We don't want to think
that everybody is going
to do math the same way.
>> Lisa: Yeah, like
this particular student.
>> Stierle: Oh my gosh,
this is a great one.
When-- All of a sudden,
they're taking the word
and they're using a definition.
The definition is expand.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: Well, in mathematics
it means a certain thing.
Visually though, if I'm talking
to look at a yellow answer,
I would give a hundred
percent for this.
>> Lisa: For this particular--
>> Stierle: Answer.
>> Lisa: -- answer of expanding.
>> Stierle: The teacher
goes, "Very funny,
Peter" and gives an X. That's
the devaluing yellow way
to think.
I'd at least give half.
At least give half
for the yellow part
of it, at least half.
>> Lisa: I know, so
when this one is.
>> Stierle: Find X. Here it is.
It's a yellow answer.
It's correct.
That is a correct answer.
Here it is, finding something.
>> Lisa: That is
a yellow answer.
>> Stierle: That
is a yellow answer.
It's not correct mathematically.
>> Lisa: But it's true.
>> Stierle: It's true.
>> Lisa: It would be
considered sarcastic.
So.
>> Stierle: So, this next slide
is very valuable for us, Lisa,
it's because when the
brain starts shutting down,
when we get to the point
when we're being forced
into a preference set
that is not like ours,
then these models will retreat,
these different thinking styles
will retreat and do a strategy
of getting distance from.
>> Lisa: I say yes and that's
what we see in education system,
where we'll see in an employee
relationship that doesn't work.
We see this in relationships in
parenting, in different ways.
So that it actually makes the
other person contract even more
and feel that they're wrong.
>> Stierle: That's correct.
So criticism is going
to come from blue.
It's criticism on a fact--
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: -- or a
piece of information.
They're going to pick a slice
of truth and politically,
we've got big problems
with this 'cause I'm going
to pick a small piece of
truth and I'm going to hammer
that message so that becomes
the standard of truth.
Meanwhile, I'm ignoring
all the rest of this truth.
This is the truth, even if
it's financially flawed,
they will pick it
and they'll run it.
>> Lisa: Yup.
>> Stierle: That's called
controlling a narrative.
OK? Defensiveness, defensiveness
is "I didn't do it,
it's not me, that's not true."
See all it's defensive talk.
Contempt, "You don't
really love me,
you don't really respect the
relationship, you don't care,
you're really not
considering people."
>> Lisa: That's in relationship.
>> Stierle: That's
in relationship.
All that's read contempt.
You know, I could pull a little
more contempt into a little bit.
Withdrawal is going to
be more, "Whatever."
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: "I'm out of here."
Shut down or stonewalling.
>> Lisa: Do the-- I mean,
do the yellow people tend
to do those types of withdrawal.
>> Stierle: That's
correct, that's correct.
>> Lisa: I see.
So if you have a child who tends
to be the yellow
visionary thinker--
>> Stierle: They'll start
talking-- they'll stop talking.
>> Lisa: Their shadow side
or their contempt is
going to be the-- I see--
>> Stierle: Because you are
not seeing what I am seeing.
>> Lisa: So when you start to
see that child withdrawing,
you realize that
you're not appealing
to their communication
style and to get more
into the visionary conversation,
we draw them back out.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
That's the best part.
If I want to speak to the
overview, my younger son,
Tristan is seven and he has a
strong red-yellow power to him
and this yellow thing he does
when he goes into stonewalling
and withdrawal, it's really--
it's tough because all of a
sudden, he goes like this.
>> Lisa: I'm sure.
>> Stierle: Why is
he doing that?
He's giving me a very
important message here.
You're using a lot of words and
you're not considering my choice
and you're not fully
understanding me and my words.
I don't have enough words
to fight back you--
with you big person.
So I'm just going to shut
down here for a little while
and I need some space.
And that's what they
usually says, next, I see,
boy when I see your
fingers in your ears,
it sounds like you don't
want to hear my words
and you want some time to
think about this and calm down.
Is that what you would like?
He does this.
>> Lisa: And then
he gets his space.
>> Stierle: You know, let me
give you five or 10 minutes
and I'll come back and we'll
see how that works, OK.
He goes, OK.
>> Lisa: And then in
five to 10 minutes,
it's different ball game.
>> Stierle: But at least
it's not a 20-minute fight.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: And it's also
not something I have to pay
for later when I ask
him to brush his teeth.
>> Lisa: And ah--
>> Stierle: Or go to bed
'cause otherwise I'll have
to pay for it later.
>> Lisa: Good point.
Well, this is-- OK.
So this is basically
the rule of thumb here.
Your beliefs speak
on your thoughts.
This is a great quote.
Your thoughts become your words,
your words become your actions,
your actions become your habits,
your habits become your values,
your values become your destiny.
That is beautifully stated.
>> Stierle: I really
enjoyed this quote
and the biggest thing
here is that we got
to really watch the beliefs
that we've been handed down.
We really want to do a
better job at poking a stick
at those things and
really test them out to see
if it's a working bull thing
or is this something
I need to reframe?
And I really want to pull back
my labels and my diagnoses.
I want to do those as much.
I want to find out
what is really alive
in this other person here.
What's at the heart of the
message that they're bringing?
I want to find out
what the heart
of the message of
my son doing this.
>> Lisa: Right.
>> Stierle: You know, I want
to really find out when--
you know, what's
really valuable there.
>> Lisa: All right.
So this next slide looks
like a study that was done.
Is this a study?
>> Stierle: Yes.
A very important
slide to talk about is
that how the brain works in
reference to try to cause change
and very simply speaking
is that if we take a look
at the front part of our
brain and we take a look
at the logical part over
here and the spatial part
or the future thinking, so we
have logic and future thinking,
the blue and the yellow
part of the brain.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: This
part of our brain has
about 400,000 connections--
>> Lisa: Wow.
>> Stierle: -- per micron
of neuroconnections.
It's the newer part
of our brain.
But that part of our brain is
the older part of our brain.
It's the emotional part over
here, the amygdala, lower right,
the red part and the green part
of our brain, long-term memory,
hippocampus, all
these-- this is the--
this part of the brain has
4.3 million connections,
400,000 versus 4.3
million, therefore, emotion
and long-term memory always wins
over logic and future thinking.
>> Lisa: So they're dominant.
Interesting.
>> Stierle: The reason why is
because the brain is building
in safekeeping things.
It wants to remember what a
spider is and a snake is--
>> Lisa: Survival.
>> Stierle: -- through
generation
and put an emotion to it.
Therefore, no matter
what your logical mind
or your spatial mind says,
if I said, "Hey Lisa,
there's a black widow
spider crawling."
>> Lisa: I am running
out that door.
>> Stierle: That's correct
because your physiology
is going to change--
>> Lisa: Interesting.
>> Stierle: -- in
regard to that.
And the reason why
this is important is
because when we're trying
to get change to take place,
when we're trying to
get conflict be resolved
and when we're trying to
make peace to show up,
when we're trying to get
human beings to communicate
with each other, we want
to be really be mindful
that the brain is
wired for safekeeping.
It's wired for the emotions
to go into protection on it.
>> Lisa: I see.
>> Stierle: And no matter how--
what we do is that we've got
to get used to getting our brain
to communicate with itself.
>> Lisa: OK.
>> Stierle: And that's
going to be a big part
of our next discussion
'cause that--
those are the obstacles in the
environment, that we've got
to like-- we've got
to deal with this--
>> Lisa: That's a huge
piece, absolutely.
>> Stierle: And-- yeah, so.
>> Lisa: Well, let's take a
look at Bill in the environment
of teaching these
two group of people.
This looks like so
much fun, take a look.
[ Music ]
>> Stierle: [Background Music]
Can I have four volunteers
to please bring your
objection up to the front.
When I transform into one of
the characters in the Matrix,
what I'm trying to teach
is how to dodge voices
of criticism and judgment.
That we've got to work
on how we take things
that are being said
in our direction.
Whether it's from a boss or
during the sales process,
conflict is inherent
in our language.
You're just not right for this.
As I go into a physical motion.
I'm feeling like, "Oh, I'm
coming around to get you."
I'm giving a slow motion punch.
What that really means
is I'm giving you time
to actually see the tragic
sentence that is coming.
So the participant can grab and
pull the conflict pass then.
Notice how he's grabbing before
he used any words at all.
And not carry that on.
Put these cards in order most
like you to least like you.
Pick up your cards, all of
them and you're going to walk
to the following quadrants.
During the whole brain
walkaround, what happens is,
is that audience gets up
and they walked the four
corners of the room.
And each one of those corners
is a different thinking style.
No sentences over
five words please.
You'll have all that right?
Great. They get a greater sense
of how each different part
of the brain communicates
very differently.
Just raise your hands
in the air and say,
"We need your super
powers for our ideas."
I want to really make sure
that the participants
have the aha moments.
You know, I just
got why, you know,
me and my coworker can't
speak very well together.
>> Help us...
>> Wow, I'm feeling
so much better now.
I really strive to make the
presentations fun and engaging
so that the audience
gets a sense
that this is not
something that's boring.
This is not a lecture.
Uh-huh, uh-huh.
Got it, click.
I love what I do.
I think it's a blast.
You know, I'm energized by it.
Well, I've been speaking for
22 years and I bring that kind
of quality and consistency of
years of experience as well
as a depth of knowledge and why
people think the way they do.
Bring your list of 10
things to me and we'll go
over how you got
frustrated in the world.
Whether it's a keynote,
a 90-minute piece
or a day-long training, wow,
see, the participants come away
with real practical tools
that one month later,
they're still using
that information.
Was it fun?
[ Applause ]
Thank you very much everybody.
I really appreciate it.
>> Lisa: All right, this has
been incredibly illuminating
on how to communicate
with people.
First of all to understand
ourselves and secondly,
how to understand other people
and figure out how to be heard
and feel heard with our
communication with other people.
This is great.
I want to continue with you.
I want to bring you back
because there's so much more
that we haven't even touched on.
>> Stierle: Yeah.
>> Lisa: So thank you so
much to your contribution
and for teaching us how to
relate better with people
and solve the heck of a
lot of conflict out there.
>> Stierle: It's been a lot of
fun and I really look forward
to the next time that we get
a chance to come back together
and go further down this place
to integrate these
different concepts.
>> Lisa: I'm sure
there's so much more.
Well, thank you so much.
And if you would like to
watch a reply of my interview
with Bill Stierle, you can go to
giamtv.com and you can share it
with your friends and
watch the replay there.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[ Music ]